You start in a small chamber lit with TORCH JARS -- there's a GOLEMER at a CAULDRON.

TORCH JARS
You can push them (not in first room though, put them in niches in the wall). They're either unlit or lit. If they interact with fire they become lit, and are infinitely (?) flammable. If placed next to something flamable, they light it on fire.

(if not infinitely, give the golemer a behavior to go relight them using magic if they're unlit.)

SLIME CAULDRON
A cauldron that gives you some reward (magic spell? extra heart?) in exchange for the item displayed on it. The golemer explains this, the first one is some common item you can find in the cave, maybe a mushroom.

GOLEMER
He explains that you're a slime golem who he created with his magic to go into the cave and get mushrooms for him. He's an old man so the caves are too dangerous for him.

In the chamber there's also a hidden door that only the golemer can pass through.

Outside the chamber, there's a hall with doors to a cave and to a barn (straw on the floor, maybe some signs you can read, and a wooly pig). There's also the entrance to the caves, they're both marked with signs.

The caves are randomly shuffled cards (randomly at the start of the game? Or should they reset like a rogue situation)

And the cards can be rotated, so they form branching paths. Each one has at least two "exits," and some have three or four.

The caves have:
Dragonflowers
Sulfur crystals with wooly pigs to smash them
Crypt treasures
The hatchet maybe?
Torch jar puzzles

But, outside via the barn is how you can really explore the world, that's where there are things like plants and other people. BUT it's actually a second, much larger enclosed space. To get out of that one, you need at least the hatchet, maybe something else too, like a boat.

Maybe there's a fountain/geyser of water that extinguishes the torch jars.

Fountain behavior:
    Always flowing unless there's something on top of it. If the thing on top of it has a onDouse() action, it does that. So that's how it puts out the jars.

Torch Jar Puzzle:
    You have to light the jar using a dragonflower, then push it over to a stump that blocks a narrow passage. Maybe stumps can't be cut down with the hatchet? Or maybe this is the puzzle that gets you the hatchet. Yeah, that works. And set up some other room to teach you that you can push torch jars, and that they set things next to them on fire.
    
Torch Jar Teaching Puzzle:
    Maybe you push a crate past a torch jar and it burns. So the puzzle is finding a different way to take the crate (back the way you came?). Or you have to push the jar out of the way first, and the crates regenerate somehow. Maybe a crate generator, and you can break them with the hatchet.

Floor Tiles:
    They occupy a different slot on the square, and are animated from 1-16 or something of brokenness. The existence of a plant on a tile breaks it, and also its neighbors. They're on the ground in the golemer's house and maybe some of the cave.

    Star Floor could work the same way, getting swished around the room as you or the pig walk through it.

Maybe the golemer feeds the pig wild onions. And the pig has a randomly generated name from the mumbler, which the golemer might mention. The golemer can also repair walls and other broken things in his house. Basically, they're all invisible "generators" that he can sense, and he senses when they're empty, which causes him to pathfind to an adjacent square to that empty space, then create the associated block.

What if the golemer's hidden door leads to a whole other section of open world filled with these "generators," which he begins to build in while he's away. And you can access it from deep, deep within the caves, or maybe by killing the golemer and stealing his key.

Also, what else is out in the main world to explore? Plants, lots of different useful plants. Also monsters, post-apocalyptic artifacts, some kind of currency or points to accumulate. Gold?

And a crafting system, maybe the golemer teaches you but maybe actually it's someone who lives out in the wild and has a workshop. Maybe there's gardeners out there too cultivating weird special plants. You can kill them but then you lose access to that plant forever, other than whatever supply you have left.

There might also be traders with a simple interface that shows what they want and what they're giving for it.

When you die and respawn, it's the golemer creating a new golem from his cauldron. He orders you to go do whatever his most recent task is, then ignores you. Maybe you're a random color every time or something.

If you talk to him he has a dialogue queue. If you attack him he attacks back, but only proportionately times two to how much damage you did to him.

Maybe the hatchet is a KEY ITEM, meaning if you die it respawns with you at the golemer's house.

POWDER KEGS that you can push around to cause explosions and break through rock.

KUDZU with yellow flowers, and a rare mutation for blue flowers, which are able to harden and withstand fire, the gene is persistent so if there's a fire it'll select for blue flowers. You can cut through its vines with the hatchet.

enemy: a beam shooter, but the beam starts with one empty square between the shooter and the beam, so if you rush him before he can shoot you get into a safe zone.